 ➢ Developed a microservice and integrated it into a data query language stack 
➢ Demonstrated basic control of multiple network devices' API calls 
➢ Extracted basic and in-depth information on system health of network devices via SNMP or API 
➢ Built alarms and events templates for grouping entities for particular services and then linked to hosts running that services 
➢ Created Grafana dashboards for visualizing and monitoring the system health of devices 
➢ Reviewed documentation on optical infrastructure domain and resources to monitor the health of the optical links and devices




➢ Managed the technical aspect of the transmission and network infrastructure with minimal impact on network quality, customer services, reliability and availability 
➢ Developed long term road map in conformity with the business and strategic development unit plans 
➢ Maintained network performance at and above industry standards ➢ Managed internal and external audit process to ensure compliance of transmissions processes 
➢ Established KPI collection and analysis process resulting in dramatic network performance improvement 
➢ Managed teams responsible for designing, planning and Implementing LTE and fiber infrastructure

DWDM, GPON, Ethernet, Network protocols(TCP/IP, BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, VPNs, IPv4 and IPv6, VLANs, MPLS, STP, GRE/IPSec, DNS),Network Troubleshooting,Horizontal Directional Drilling (HDD),OTDR,Wireless Networking,Linux, VM, Windows, Cloud computing,Wireshark,Python, R Programming,Zabbix, Grafana


I’ve been refining my networking skills with side projects, and schooling . 
I’m looking for an opportunity where I can put those abilities to work for a mission I’m passionate about. 
I was also excited to read in the job description that this role will require regular application of the skills learnt 
—one of my key motivators is the ability to connect with colleagues and communicate my team’s work, so this is an especially exciting part of this opportunity.
Ultimately, I’ve learned a lot from my past work experiences, 
and I’m looking for the next step where I can continue to grow and use the skills I’ve honed at a company I love, and this opportunity seems to be a great fit.


In my recent internship program, I was tasked to build a service that will automate the processes of the company. 
I worked with the other team members to create and troubleshoot the new microservice. 
I was able to finish the development days ahead of schedule.


I have worked hard in previous jobs to develop specific and necessary soft and hard skills for this position. 
I am a highly organized person, which makes me a great choice for this position. 
I am a team player, working with other team mates to achieve a goal and very adaptable.


I have a strong set of skills that uniquely qualify me for this job. 
I'm well-versed in a wide range of computer programming languages. 
I recently completed professional development on the latest updates to Python. 
I'm considered an expert source controller, and I lead a training for my colleagues in my last position on best practices for source control. 
I'm also good at writing tests for my code, so the company won't have to hire an outside tester which will save time and money.




Facebook is looking for a forward thinking Network Operations Engineer with technical skills in networking, system, and tooling/automation to join the network operation team to improve operations efficiency and reliability of one of the most dynamic, fast-paced networks in the world. The right candidate will be comfortable in a fast moving organization and enjoy digging into operational problems in order to implement the process enhancement and technical solutions to solve them, and are able to quickly learn and pick up new domain expertise and technologies.

Network Operations Engineer, University Grad Responsibilities

Be the key Subject Matter Expert on operations of Facebook production networks in a hyper-scale and heterogeneous environment.
Formulate the right metrics and definitions of success to drive quality, efficiency, cost, and timeliness, and evolve these over time to match changes to the infrastructure and business requirements.
Develop the operational process improvement plans, and transform the improvements to scalable and automated workflows by writing and reviewing the code to improve the operational efficiency.
Perform deep dives on complex technical issues across networks, ranging from automated tooling to hardware failures and network issues.
Participate and improve escalation and emergency response with detailed postmortem while addressing issues systematically to prevent future occurrences.
Build cross-functional relationships with Network Engineering, Systems Engineering, Traffic, Logistics, Program Management, and OEM partners to deliver superb operational results and manage the performance of external vendors.
Participate in the oncall rotation with the global operations team.
15% of travel (domestic and international).

Minimum Qualifications
Currently has, or is in the process of obtaining, a(n) Engineering degree.
Network operations experience while supporting large-scale network infrastructure.
Proficient in at least one of the network domains: IP network, optical network or CDN/Edge network, including topology, protocol, hardware and architectures.
Experience coding in higher-level languages (e.g., Python, C++, Go, etc.) and experience to rapidly learn new languages, technologies, frameworks and APIs.
Experience in implementing/maintaining the monitoring, alerting and repairing systems for production network in a DevOps environment.
Experience working within a global team and collaborate with cross-functional teams in a fast-paced and dynamic environment with limited supervision.
Must obtain work authorization in the country of employment at the time of hire, and maintain ongoing work authorization during employment.

Preferred Qualifications
Currently has, or is in the process of obtaining, a Bachelors or Masters degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or a related technical discipline.
Expert knowledge of TCP/IP and IPv6.
Knowledge of data driven analysis.
Experience in providing technical guidance to external vendors.
